1. Describe problem in field, and an idea of the solution.

Accurate measurement of cell morphodynamics is an essential part of live-cell studies. Cell shape can be measured by distinguishing dark edges and bright cell interiors and differentiating them from the background of the image in a process called segmentation. Newly developed microfluidics techniques allow in vitro studies of complex 3D environments. In order to study live cells moving in this environment, 3D imaging is done using a confocal microscope. Cell segmentation is then done using image recognition software such as CellProfiler or ImageJ. Ideally, the cell shape should be captured and analysed in 3D, but imaging limitations can prevent an adequate 3D reconstruction. These limitations include cell overheating from excessive contact with the laser used to produce a fluorescent response, lower resolution from a larger field of view that allows more cells to be imaged, and the necessary time delay between frames to allow the entire field to be imaged. These factors contribute to lower image quality, which prevents the extraction of high-quality shape data from the images. A possible solution is to use the relatively high-quality brightfield images to determine the shape of the cell.

2. Describe a previous study or studies done to try to solve this problem.

In their 2009 paper, Selinummi et al. attempt to solve this problem by scanning the brightfield in 3D. Although brightfield data does not contain 3D information, intensity at a location will vary as an object moves into and out of focus by moving the current Z plane. This variation can indicate the presence of an object, and can be quantified mathematically to produce a highlighted image showing areas likely to contain objects. This works to a degree in a simple environment, but fails in more complex scenarios. It is unable to determine the Z location of individual objects, differentiate between objects such as different cell types and PMDS (a plastic compound used as a structural material), or accurately represent the boundary of a cell due to distortion.

3. Describe the goal of the current study

In this study, we used 3D information from a fluorescent GFP channel to allow the segmentation of brightfield images by finding levels with clear edges. This exploited the relationship between the coordinate systems in the image sets.
